## Interview Process
- Algorithm and coding problems form largest component of an interview process.
   - **Do you best to talk out loud** throughout the problem and explain your thought process.
   - That your interviewer helps you us normal and doesn't mean that you're doing poorly.
- Assessment of performance based on:
  - Analytical skills
  - Coding skills
  - Technical knowledge / Computer science fundamentals
  - Experience
  - Culture fit / Communication skills
- Why?
  - False negative are acceptable
  - Problem-solving skills are valuable
  - Basic data structure and algorithm is useful.
    - It's difficult to know that you should use a binary search tree if tou don't know of its existence.
    - It's hard to ask problem-solving questions that don't involve them.
  - **Whiteboards** let you focus on what matters.
    - Your interviewer doesn't expect that you write perfect code on a whiteboard.
    - That's not to say that you should just write **pseudocode** or that correctness doesn't matter. Fewer errors are still better.
    - It also tend to encourage candidates to speak more and explain their thought process.
  - It's relative
    - Interviewers assess you relative yo other candidates on that same question by the same interviewer.
    - It's not about the candidates the interviewer is interviewing that week; it's about all the candidates that she' ever asked this question to.
    - When a question is harder for you, it's harder for everyone. It doesn't make it any less likely that you'll do well.
- Write a great resume
  - Appropriate resume length
    - 1 page for less than 10 years of experience.
    - 1.5 - 2 page for more experienced candidates.
    - Long resume are not a reflection of having tons of experience, but they're a reflection of not understanding how to prioritize content.
  - Employment history
    - Resume does not and should not include a full history of every role you had.
    - Include only the relevant positions.
    - Write string bullets
      - For each role discuss you accomplishments with the form "Accomplished X by implementing Y which led to Z".
      - Ideally you should try to make the results "measurable" somehow.
  - Projects
    - This is specially effective for college students or recent grads.
    - Include your 2 - 4 most significant projects.
    - State what the project was and which language or technologies it employed.
    - Independent projects are generally preferred over course projects.
  - Programming Languages and Software
    - Software: like Visual Studio and Eclipse.
    - Languages
      - List everything you've ever worked with is dangerous.
      - Add your experience level, like "Java(expert),C++(proficient), JavaScript(prior experience)"
      - The number of years  is a poor metric for resumes.
  - Beware of Stigma
    - Enterprise Languages
      - Certain languages have a stigma associated with them, like Visual Basic.
      - .NET
    - Being too language focused
    - Certifications
    - Knowing only one or two languages
      - Try to diversify.
      - It's better if you can learn languages that are more different, like Python, C++, and Java.

## Special situation
- For experienced candidates
  - They might see slightly less focus on algorithm question.
  - The exception to the rule is system design and architecture questions.
  - Experienced candidates will be expected to give a more in-depth, impressive response to questions.
- For Interviewers
  - Don't actually ask the exact questions as examples.
  - Ask medium and hard problems
  - Look for questions with multiple hurdle.
  - Use hard questions, not hard knowledge
    - The knowledge you're expecting candidates to have should be fairly straightforward **data structure and algorithm** knowledge.
    - It's reasonable to expect a computer science graduate to understand the basic of big O and trees.
    - Most won't remember Dijkstra's algorithm or the specifics of how AVL trees works.
    - Avoid "scary" questions.
    - Candidates are often intimidated by some questions that involves
      - Math or probability.
        - $a^3 + b^3 = c^3 + d^3$, find all positive integer solutions under 1000.
      - Low-level knowledge (memory allocation, etc).
      - System design or scalability.
      - Proprietary systems (Google Maps)
    - Offer positive reinforcement
      - Candidates are such nervous that interpret "Good Luck" to mean something.
      - A good candidate who has a negative reaction to ypu or to the company is less likely to accept an offer.
      - Try to be warm and friendly 
        - "Right, exactly."
        - "Great point".
        - "Okay, that's a really interesting approach"
        - "Perfect"
      - There is always something a candidate got right.
  - Probe deeper on behavioral questions.
    - Many candidates are poor at articulating their specific accomplishments.
    - Don't assume that a candidate didn't do much in a situation just because you have trouble understanding that they did.
    - Ask them specifically.
  - Coach your candidates
    - If candidates don't write an (good) example themselves, guide them.
    - Some candidates take a long time to find the bug because they use an enormous example.
    - If candidates dive into code before an optimal solution, pull them back and focus them on the algorithm.
    - If they get nervous and stuck, suggest that they walk through the brute force and look for areas to optimize.
    - Their first solution doesn't have to be perfect.