## Interview Preparation
- Behavioral questions are asked to get to know your personality, to understand the resume more deeply.

| Common Questions          | Project 1 | Project 2 | Project 3 |
|---------------------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| Challenges                |           |           |           |
| Mistakes/Failures         |           |           |           |
| Enjoyed                   |           |           |           |
| Leadership                |           |           |           |
| Conflicts                 |           |           |           |
| What You'd Do Differently |           |           |           |

- Reduce each story to just a couple of keywords may make the grid easier to study and recall.
- Ensure you have one to three projects that you can talk about in detail.
- They should be projects where you played a central role and know their technical components in depth.
- Weakness
  - Give a real weakness. "My greatest weakness is that I work too hard." is arrogant.
  - This emphasizes **how you work to overcome it**.
- Ask the interviewers
  - The quality of your questions will be a factor in their decision.
  - Think about 3 general types of questions:
    1. Genuine Questions
       - There are questions you actually want to know the answers to.
       - Examples
         - What is the ratio of testers to developers to program managers?
         - What si the interaction like?
         - How does project planning happen on the team?
         - What brought you to this company?
         - What has been most challenging for you?
    2. Insightful Questions
       - Demonstrate you knowledge or understanding of technology.
       - Examples
         - I noticed that you use technology X. How do you handle problem Y?
         - Why did the product choose to use the X protocol over the Y protocol? I know it has benefits like A, B, C, but many companies choose not to use it because of issue D.
    3. Passion Questions 
       - Demonstrate you passion for technology and you interest in learning and will be a strong contributor to the company.
       - Examples
         - I'm very interested in scalability and I'd love to learn more about it. What opportunities are there at this company to learn about this?
         - I'm not familiar with technology X, but is sounds like a very interesting solution. Could you tell me a bit more about how it works?
- Know you projects
  - Select projects that ideally fit the criteria
    - Had challenging components (beyond just "learning a lot")
    - You played a central role (ideally on the challenging components)
    - You can tal at technical depth.
  - Talk about
    - Challenges
    - Mistakes
    - Technical decision
    - Choices of technologies (and tradeoffs of these)
    - The things you would do differently

## Respond to Behavioral questions
- Be specific (not arrogant)
- Limit details
  - It's hard for an interviewer who isn't well versed on the subject to understand it.
  - Stay light on details and just state the key points.
  - Offer the interview the opportunity to drill in further.
  - Example: "By examining the most common use behavior and applying the Rabin-Karp algorithm, I designed a new algorithm to reduce search from O(n) to O(log n) in 90% of cases. I can go into more details if you'd like."
- Focus on yourself, not your team
  - Interviewer are fundamentally and individual assessment.
  - Using "we", "us" and "the team", interviewers have little idea what the candidate impacted and might conclude that the candidate did little.
  - Listen for how much you say "we" versus "I".
- Give structured answers
  1. Nugget first
     - Start with your response with a "nugget" that succinctly does what you response will be about.
     - It grabs your interviewer's attention and makes it very clear what you story will be about. 
     - Examples
       - Interview: "Tell me about a time you had to persuade a group of people to make big change"
       - Candidate: "Sure, let me tell you about the time when O convinced my school to let undergraduate teach their own courses. Initially, my school had a rule where ..."
  2. S.A.R (Situation, Action, Result)
    - Start off outlining the situation, then explaining the actions you took, and lastly describing the result.
    - Example: "Tell me about a challenging interaction with a teammate" 
      - **Situation**: "On my operating systems project, I was assigned to work with three other people. While two were great, the third team members didn't contribute much ...."
      - **Action**: "I didn't want to write him off completely yet, so I tried to resolve the situation. I did three things."
        - "First, I wanted ti understand why he was acting like this ..."
        - "Second, now that I understand the cause, I tried to make it clear that he should not fear messing up..."
        - "Third and finally, I asked him to help me with breaking out some of the components of the project..."
      - **Result**: "With his confidence raised, he now offered to tak on a bunch of the smaller coding work and ...."
    - The situation and result should be succinct.
    - Action is the most important part of the story in most cases.

  |         | Nugget | Situation | Action(s) | Result | What is says |
  |---------|--------|-----------|-----------|--------|--------------|
  | Story 1 |        |           |           |        |              |
  | Story 2 |        |           |           |        |              | 

- Think about what the story says
  - Your stories should reflect at least one of the following attributes
    - Initiative/Leadership
    - Empathy
    - Compassion
    - Humility
    - Teamwork/Helpfulness
  - If your story doesn't show any attributes, you need to rework how you communicate the story to make the attribute clearer.
  - Do explicitly say, "I did X because I have empathy".
  - Example:
    - Less clear: "I called up the client and told hum what happened."
    - More clear: "I made sure to call the client myself, because I knew that he would appreciate hearing it directly from me."

## Tell me about yourself
- Many interviewers kick off the session by asking you to tell them a bit about yourself.
- It's your interviewer's first impression of you, make sure to nail it.
- Structure
  1. Current role [Headline Only]: "I'm a software engineer at Microworks, where I've been leading the Android team for the last five years."
  1. College: My background is in computer science. I did my undergrad at Berkeley and spent a few summers working at startups, including one where I attempted to launch my owb business.
  1. Post college & Onwards: After college, I wanted to get some exposure to larger corporations so I joined Amazon as a developer. It was a great experience. I learned a ton about large system design and I got to really drive the launch of a key part of AWS. That actually showed me that I really wanted to be in a more entrepreneurial environment.
  1. Current Role [Details]: One of my old mangers from Amazon recruited me out to join her startup, which was what brought me to Microworks. Here, I did the initial system architecture, which has scaled pretty well with our rapid growth. I then took an opportunity to lead the Android team. I do manage a team of three, but my role is primarily with technical leadership: architecture, coding, etc.
  1. (Outside of Work): 
  1. Wrap up: I'm looking now for something new, and your company caught my eye. I've always loved the connection with the user, and I really want to get back to a smaller environment too.
- Hobbies
  - If your hobby is just generic activities like skiing or playing with your dog, you can probably skip it.
  - Some hobbies are useful when
    - It is extremely unique. It may strike up a bit of a conversation and kick off the interview on a more amiable note.
    - It is technical.
    - It demonstrates a positive personality attribute. A hobby like "remodeling your house yourself" shows a drive to learn new things, take some risks, and get your hands dirty.
  - I would rarely hurt to mention hobbies.
- Think about what different aspects of your background say about you.