## Prepare
- You need to practice solving problems. Memorizing solutions won't help you much.
- For each problem, do the following:
  - Try to solve the problem on your own
    - Many questions are designed to be tough-that's okay!
    - When you're solving a problem, make sure to **think about the space and time** efficiency
  - Write the code on paper.
  - Test your code-on paper.
  - Type your paper code as-is into a computer.
    - Start a list of all the errors you make so that you can keep these in mind during the actual interview.
- Knowledge
  - Most interviewers won't ask about complex algorithms. 

  | Data Structures        | Algorithms           | Concepts                |
  |------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------|
  | Linked Lists           | Breadth-First Search | Bit Manipulation        |
  | Trees, Tries, & Graphs | Depth-First Search   | Memory (Stack vs. Heap) |
  | Stacks & Queues        | Binary Search        | Recursion               |
  | Heaps                  | Merge Sort           | Dynamic Programming     |
  | Vectors I ArrayLists   | QuickSort            | Big 0 Time & Space      |
  | Hash Tables            |                      |             
  - For each of these topics, make sure you **understand how to use and implement them** and, where applicable, **the space and time complexity**.
  - In particular, **hash tables** are an extremely important topic. 

  | Powerof2 | Exact Value (X)   | Approx. Value | X Bytes into MB, GB,etc. |
  |----------|-------------------|---------------|--------------------------|
  | 7        | 128               |               |                          |
  | 8        | 256               |               |                          |
  | 10       | 1024              | 1 thousand    | 1 KB                     |
  | 16       | 65,536            |               | 64KB                     |
  | 20       | 1,048,576         | 1 million     | 1 MB                     |
  | 30       | 1,073,741,824     | 1 billion     | 1 GB                     |
  | 32       | 4,294,967,296     |               | 4GB                      |
  | 40       | 1,099,511,627,776 | 1 trillion    | lTB                      |
  - The table below is useful for many questions involving scalability or any sort of memory limitation.
  - Memorizing this table isn't strictly required, but it can be useful.

## Walking Through a Problem
1. Listen Carefully
    - You do want to ask questions about anything you're unsure about.
    - Listen carefully to the problem, and be sure that you've mentally recorded any **unique** information.
      - If you heard "Given two arrays that are sorted, find ...", You probably need to know that the data is sorted. 
      - "Design an algorithm to be run repeatedly on a server that ..." The server/to-be-run-repeatedly situation is different from the run-once situation.
    - It's unlikely that your interviewer would give you this information if it didn't affect the algorithm.
      - **Your first algorithm doesn't need to use the information**.
      - If you find yourself stuck, or you're still working to develop something **more optimal**, ask yourself if you've **used all the information in the problem**.
    - You might even find it useful to write the pertinent information on the whiteboard.
      - After ten minutes into an algorithm, **some of the key details have been forgotten**.

2. Draw an Example
    - An example can dramatically improve your ability to solve an interview question,
    - When you hear a question, go to the whiteboard and draw an example.
    - Draw a **good example**
      - Specific. It should use real numbers or strings. (Not only a conceptual data structure)
      - Sufficiently large.
      - Not a special case. Be careful. **It's very easy to inadvertently draw a special case.**
    - If it later turns out your example isn't quite right, you can and should fix it.

3. State a **Brute Force**
    - It's okay and expected that your initial algorithm won't be very optimal.
      - You don't want your interviewer to think that you're struggling to see even the easy solution.
      - Even if it's obvious for you, it's not necessarily obvious for all candidates.
    - Explain what the space and time complexity is, and then dive into improvements.
    - It's a starting point for optimizations, and it helps you wrap your head around the problem.
    - You don't always need to write the brute force algorithm on the whiteboard.
    
4. Optimize
    1. Look for any unused information.
    2. Use a fresh example. Sometimes, just seeing a different example will unclog your mind.
    3. Solve it "incorrectly"
        - For example, if you're asked to generate a random value. an incorrect solution might be one that returns a semi-random value: Any value could be returned, but some are more likely than others.
        - You can then think about why that solution isn't perfectly random. Can you rebalance the probabilities?
    4. Make time vs. space tradeoff.
    5. Precompute information.
    6. Use a hash table.
    7. Think about the **best conceivable runtime**.
   
5. Walk Through
    - After you've nailed down an optimal algorithm, don't just dive into coding. Walk through your algorithm and get a feel for the structure of the code.
    - You need to make sure that you get it as close to "perfect" in the beginning as possible since whiteboard coding is slow-very slow. So is testing your code and fixing it.
    - If you don't understand exactly what you're about to write, you'll struggle to code it.
6. Implement
    - Start coding in the far **top left corner** of the whiteboard (you'll need the space).
    - Avoid "line creep" (where each line of code is written an awkward slant).
    - **Write beautiful code.**
      - Modularized code
        - If your algorithm uses a matrix initialized to `{{ 1, 2, 3}, { 4 J 5, 6}, ... }`, don't waste your time writing this initialization code. Just pretend you have a function `ini tIncrementalMatrix (int size)`.
        - Fill in the details later if you need to.
      - Error checks.
        - A good compromise here is to add a todo and then just explain out loud what you'd like to test.
      - Use other classeslstructs where appropriate.
        - If you need to return a list of start and end points from a function, you could do this as a two-dimensional array. It's better though to do this as a list of `StartEndPair` object.
        - You don't necessarily have to fill in the details for the class. Just pretend it exists and deal with the details later if you have time.
        - Good variable names
       
7. Test
    - You shouldn't "submit" code in an interview without testing it.
    - **DON'T** use earlier example and test it against the code. If you really did use a nice, big example to develop your algorithm, then it'll take you a very long time to find that little off-by-one error at the end of your code.
    - Try the approach:
      1. "Conceptual" test: just reading and analyzing what each line of code does.
      2. Weird looking code: Double check that line of code that says `x = length - 2`. Investigate that for loop that starts at `i = 1`. 
      3. Hot spots. E.g.
         - Base cases in recursive code.
         - Integer division.
         - Null nodes in binary trees
         - The start and end of iteration through a linked list.
         - etc
      4. Small test cases: use a 3 or 4 element array. It'll likely discover the same bugs as a big one, but it will be much faster to do so.
      5. Special cases: null or single element values, the extreme cases, or etc.

## Optimize & Solve Technique
1. Look for **BUD**
    - "BUD" is a silly acronym for: Bottlenecks, Unnecessary work, Duplicated work.
    - Bottlenecks
      - There are two common ways this occurs:
        - You have one-time work that slows down your algorithm.
          - For example, suppose you have a two-step algorithm where you first sort the array and then you find elements with a particular property. The first step is 0 (N log N) and the second step is 0 (N)
        - You have a chunk of work that's done repeatedly.
      - Example: Given an array of distinct integer values, count the number of pairs of integers that have difference k. For example, given the array `{1, 7, 5, 9, 2, 12, 3}` and the difference `k = 2`, there are four pairs with difference 2: `(1, 3), (3, 5), (5, 7), (7, 9)`.
        - A brute force algorithm is to go through the array, starting from the first element, and then search through the remaining elements. 
        - **The bottleneck here is the repeated search for the "other side" of the pair**.
        - If we sorted the array, we could find the other side for each of the N elements in $O(\log{N})$ time by doing a binary search. We now have a two-step algorithm, where both steps take $O(N\log{N})$ time.
        - Now, sorting is the new bottleneck.
        - Optimizing the second step won't help because the first step is slowing us down anyway.
        - Throw everything in the array into the hash table. Then, to look up if $x+k$ or $x-k$ exist in the array, we just look it up in the hash table. We can do this in $O(N)$ time.

    - Unnecessary Work
      - Example: Print all positive integer solutions to the equation $a^3 + b^3 = c^3 + d^3$ where a, b, c, d are integers between 1 and 1000.
        ```
        n = 1000
        for a from 1 to n
          for b from 1 to n
            for c from 1 to n
              for d from 1 to n
                if pow(a, 3) + pow(b, 3) == pow(c, 3) + pow(d, 4)
                  print a, b, c, d
        ``` 
        - A brute force solution will just have four nested for loops.
        - It's unnecessary to continue checking for other possible values of d. We should at least break after we find a valid solution.
        ```
        n = 1000
        for a from 1 to n
          for b from 1 to n
            for c from 1 to n
              for d from 1 to n
                if pow(a, 3) + pow(b, 3) == pow(c, 3) + pow(d, 4)
                  print a, b, c, d
                  break
        ``` 
        - If there's onl one valid d value for each `(a, b, c)`, then we can just compute it. $d = \sqrt[3]{a^3 + b^3 - C^3}$
        ```
        n = 1000
        for a from 1 to n
          for b from 1 to n
            for c from 1 to n
              d = pow(
                pow(a, 3) + pow(b, 3) - pow(c, 3),
                1 / 3
              )
              if a*a*a + b*b*b == c*c*c + d*d*d 
                print a, b, c, d
        ``` 
        - This will reduce our runtime from $O(N^4)$ to $O(N^3)$.
    - Duplicated work
      - Example: same questions about $a^3 + b^3 = c^3 + d^3$
        - For now, the algorithm operates by essentially iterating through all (a, b) pairs and then searching all (c, d) pairs.
        - We should just create the list of (c, d) pairs once. Then, when we have an (a, b) pair, find the matches within the (c, d) list.
        ```
        n = 1000
        for c from 1 to n
          for d from 1 to n
            result = c*c*c + d*d*d;
            append (c, d) to list at value map[result]

        for a from 1 to n
          for b from 1 to n
            result = a*a*a + b*b*b;
            list = map.get(result)
            for each pair in list
              print a, b, pair
        ``` 
        - Actually, once we have the map of all the (c, d) pairs, we can just use that directly. We don't need to generate the (a, b) pairs.
        ```
        n = 1000
        for c from 1 to n
          for d from 1 to n
            result = c*c*c + d*d*d;
            append (c, d) to list at value map[result]

        for each result, list in map
          for each pair1 in list
            for each pair2 in list
              print pair1, pair2
        ```  
        - This will take our runtime to $O(N^2)$.

2. DIY (Do It Yourself)
    - You could give someone who has no knowledge of computer science an alphabetized pile of student papers and they'll likely implement something like binary search to locate a student's paper.
    - Give people an actual example and their intuition gives them a very nice algorithm.
    - When you get a question, try just working it through intuitively on a real example. **Often a bigger example will be easier.**
    - Afterwards, think hard about how you solved it. Reverse engineer your own approach.
    - Example: Given a smaller string s and a bigger string b, design an algorithm to find all permutations of the shorter string within the longer one. Print the location of each permutation.
      - Brute force: generate all permutations of s and then look for each in b. Since there are S! permutations, this will take $O(S! * B)$ time.
      - If s has 14 characters, that's over 87 billion permutations.
      - Better approaches
        1. Walk through b and look at sliding windows of 4 characters. Check if each window is a permutation of s.
        2. Walk through b. Every time you see a character in s check if the next four characters are a permutation of 5.
      - Depending on the exact implementation , you'll probably get a runtime of either $O(B * S)$, $O(B * S log S)$, or $O(B * S^2)$. 
      - None of these are the most optimal algorithm (there is an $O(B)$ algorithm).

3. Simplify and Generalize
    -  A multi-step approach
        1. Simplify or tweak some constraint, such as the data type.
        2. Solve this new simplified version of the problem.
        3. Once we have an algorithm for the simplified problem, we try to adapt it for the more complex version.
    - Example: A ransom note can be formed by cutting words out of a magazine to form a new sentence. How would you figure out if a ransom note (represented as a string) can be formed from a given magazine (string)? 
      - To simplify the problem, we can modify it so that we are cutting characters out of a magazine instead of whole words.
      - We can solve the simplified ransom note problem with characters by simply creating an array and counting the characters.
      - When we generalize the algorithm, we create a hash table that maps from a word to its frequency.

4. Base Case and Build
    - we solve the problem first for a base case and then try to build up from there.
    - Base Case and Build algorithms often lead to natural recursive algorithms.
    - Example: Design an algorithm to print all permutations of a string. For simplicity, assume all characters are unique.
      - Consider a test string abcdefg.
        - Case "a" --> {"a"}
        - Case "ab" --> {"ab", "ba"}
        - Case "adb" --> ?
          - P("abc") = insert "C" into all locations of all strings in P("ab")
          - P("abc") = insert "C" into all locations of all strings in {"ab", "ba"}
          - P("abc") = merge({"cab", "acb", "abc"}, {"cba", "bca", "bac"})
          - P("abc") = {"cab", "acb", "abc", "cba", "bca", "bac"}

5. Data Structure Brainstorm
    - We can simply run through a list of data structures and try to apply each one.
    - Example: Numbers are randomly generated and stored into an (expanding) array. How would you keep track of the median?
      - Linked list? Probably not.
      - Array? Maybe, but you already have an array. Could you somehow keep the elements sorted?
      - Binary tree? This is possible. However, if there's an even number of elements, the median is actually the average of the middle two elements. The middle two elements can't both be at the top.
      - Heap? A heap is really good at basic ordering and keeping track of max and mins.
        - If you had two heaps, you could keep track of the bigger half and the smaller half of the elements.
        - The bigger half is kept in a min heap.
        - The smaller half is kept in a max heap.
        - If the heaps are no longer the same size, you can quickly "rebalance" the heaps.

## Best Conceivable Runtime (BCR)
- The best conceivable runtime is the best runtime **you could conceive** of a solution to a problem having.
  - Example 1: compute the number of elements that two arrays (of length A and B) have in common.
    - O(A + B) is the BCR because you have to "touch" each element in each array.
  - Example 2: print all pairs of values within an array.
    - You know you can't do that in better than $O(N^2)$ time because there are $N^2$ pairs to print.
  - Example 3: find all pairs with sum k within an array.
    - Some candidates  will say that the BCR is $O(N)$ because you have to look at $N^2$ pairs.
    - You want all pairs with a particular sum doesn't mean you have to look at all pairs.
- Best Conceivable Runtime v.s. Best Case Runtime
  - BCR is **for a problem** and is largely a function of the inputs and outputs.
  - The Best Case Runtime is for a specific algorithm.
- BCR is **not necessarily achievable**. It says only that you can't do better than it.
- **If you compute the Best Conceivable Runtime by thinking about what your algorithm does, you're probably doing something wrong**.
- Any work you do that's less than or equal to the BCR is "free;' in the sense that it won't impact your runtime.
- **BCR** tells us that we're "done" **in terms of optimizing the runtime**, and we should therefore turn our efforts to the **space complexity.**
- If you ever reach the BCR and have a O(1) additional space, then you know that you can't optimize the big O time or space.
 
- Question: Given two sorted arrays, find the number of elements in common. The arrays are the same length and each has all distinct elements.
  - Let's start with a good example.
    - A: 13 27 *35* *40* 49 *55* 59
    - B: 17 *35* 39 *40* *55* 58 60
  - A brute force algorithm for this problem is to start with each element in A and search for it in B. This takes $O(N^2)$
  - The BCR is $O(N)$ because we know we will have to look at each element at least once and there are 2N total elements.
    - Brute Force: $O(N^2)$
    - Optimal Algorithm: ?
    - BCR: O(N)
  - That second O(N) comes from searching, but we can use binary search to find an element in a sorted array in $O(\log{N})$ time.
    - Brute Force: $O(N^2)$
    - Improved Algorithm: $O(N\log{N})$
    - Optimal Algorithm: ?
    - BCR: O(N)
  - Read optimization tips. One of the tips there suggests precomputing or doing upfront work. Any upfront work we do in O(N) time is a freebie since BCR is O(N)
  - In this case, we can just throw everything in B into a hash table. This will take O(N) time. Then, we just go through A and look up each element in the hash table. This look up is O(1), so our runtime is O(N).
  - Can we do better?
    - No, not in terms of runtime. We reached the BCR O(N).
    - We could potentially optimize the space complexity. Current space complexity is O(N).
  - **We would have achieved the exact same runtime if the data wasn't sorted.** So why did the interviewer give us sorted arrays?
  - We're now looking for an algorithm
    - The space complexity is O(1). We need to drop the hash table.
    - Operates in O(N) time
    - Uses the fact that the arrays are sorted.
  - Our best algorithm that doesn't use extra space was the binary search one. The bottleneck is the searching. Is there anything unnecessary or duplicated?
    - It's unnecessary that `A[3] = 40` searched over all of B
    - We know that we just found 35 at `B[1]`, so 40 certainly won't be before 35.
  - In fact, we don't need to do a binary search at all now. We can just do a linear search.
    1. Do a linear search in B for `A[0]=13`. Start at `B[0]=17`. Stop at `B[0]=17`. Not found.
    2. Do a linear search in B for `A[1]=27`. Start at `B[0]=17`. Stop at` B[1]=35`. Not found.
    3. Do a linear search in B for `A[2]=35`. Start at `B[1]=35`. Stop at `B[1]=35`. Found.
    4. Do a linear search in B for `A[3]=40`. Start at `B[2]=39`. Stop at `B[3]=40`. Found.
    5. Do a linear search in B for `A[4]=49`. Start at `B[3]=40`. Stop at `B[4]=55`. Found.
    6. ...
  - We have now reached the BCR and have minimal space. We know that we cannot do better. 

## Other factors
- Handling Incorrect Answers
  - Responses to interview questions shouldn't be thought of as "correct" or "incorrect:
  - Your performance is evaluated in comparison to other candidates.
  - Many questions are too difficult to expect even a strong candidate to immediately spit out the optimal algorithm.
- When You've Heard a Question Before
  - If you've heard a question before, admit this to your interviewer.
  - If you already know the question, then you aren't giving them the opportunity to evaluate you.
  - The interviewer may find it highly dishonest if you don't reveal that you know the question.
- The "Perfect" Language for Interviews
  - Interviewers aren't picky about languages.
  - If you're given a choice of languages, then you should probably pick whatever language you're most comfortable with.
  - Choose your language according to
    - Prevalence: it is ideal for your interviewer to know the language you're coding
    - Language Readability: Some languages are more naturally readable than others, due to their similarity to other languages. Languages such as Scala or Objective C have fairly different syntax from Java and C++.
    - Potential Problems: For example, using C++ means that you can have memory management and pointer issues.
    - Verbosity
      - Java for example is a fairly verbose language as compared with Python
      ```python
      dict = {"left": 1, "right": 2, "top": 3, "bottom": 4}
      ``` 
      ```java
      HashMap<String, Integer> dict = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
      dict.put("left", 1);
      dict.put("right", 2);
      dict.put("top", 3);
      dict.put("bottom", 4);
      ```
      - Some of the verbosity of Java can be reduced by abbreviating code.
      - The candidate would need to explain the abbreviations, but most interviewers wouldn't mind.
      ```java
      HashMap<String, Integer> dict = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
      dict.put("left", 1);
      ...      "right", 2
      ...      "top", 3
      ...      "bottom", 4
      ```
    - Ease of Use: Some operations are easier in some languages than others.

- DON'T give up.

## What Good Coding Looks Like
- Good code has the following properties:
  - Correct
  - Efficient: includes both the asymptotic (big O) efficiency and the practical, real-life efficiency.
    - Constant factor might get dropped when you compute the big 0 time
    - In real life, the constant can very much matter.
  - Simple: 10 lines is better than 100,
  - Readable: A fancy code that does a bunch of complex bit shifting is not necessarily good code.
  - Maintainable
- Striving for these aspects requires a balancing act. For example, it's often advisable to sacrifice some degree of efficiency to make code more maintainable, and vice versa.
***
- Use Data Structures Generously
  - Write a function to add two simple mathematical expressions $Ax^a + Bx^b + ...$
  - The expression is a sequence of terms, where each term is simply a constant times an exponent.
  - Bad Implementation
    ```java
    int[] sum(double[] exprl, double[] expr2) {
    }
    ```
    - kth element corresponds to the coefficient of the $x^k$ term in the expression.
    - It would also require an array of 1000 elements to store just the expression $X^1000$
  - Less Bad Implementation
    - Store the expression as a set of two arrays, `coefficients` and `exponents`.
    ```java
    int[] sum((double[] coeffsl, double[] exponl, double[] coeffs2, double[] expon2) {
    }
    ``` 
    - Although this doesn't have the same limitations as the earlier solution, it's still very messy.
    - Expressions could have "undefined" values if the arrays were of different lengths. And returning an expression is annoying because you need to return two arrays.
  - Good Implementation
    ```java
    class ExprTerm {
      double coefficient;
      double exponent;
    }

    ExprTerm[] sum(ExprTerm[] expr1, ExprTerm[] expr2) {
    }
    ``` 
***
- Appropriate Code Reuse
  ```java
  boolean compareBinToHex(String binary, String hex) {
    int n1 = convertFromBase(binary, 2);
    int n2 = convertFromBase(hex, 16);
    if (n1 < 0 || n2 < 0) {
      return false;
    }
    return n1 == n2;
  }

  int convertFromBase(String number, int base) {
    if (base < 2 || (base > 10 && base != 16)) return -1;
    int value = 0;
    for (int i = number.length() - 1; i >= e; i--) {
      int digit = digitToValue(number.charAt(i))j
      if (digit < 0 || digit >= base) {
        return -1;
      }
      int exp = number.length() - 1 - i;
      value += digit * Math.pow(base, exp);
    }
    return value;
  }

  int digitToValue(char c) {
    // ...
  }
  ```
  - We could have implemented separate code to convert a binary number and a hexadecimal code, but this just makes our code harder to write and harder to maintain.
***
- Modular
  - Writing modular code means **separating isolated chunks of code out into their own methods**.
  ```java
  void swapMinMax(int[] array) {
    int minIndex = 0;
    for (int i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {
      if (array[i] < array[minIndex]) {
        minIndex = i;
      }
    }

    int maxIndex = 0;
    for (int i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {
      if (array[maxIndex] < array[i]) {
        maxIndex = i;
      }
    }

    int temp = array[minIndex];
    array[minIndex] = array[maxIndex];
    array[maxIndex] = temp;
  }
  ``` 
  ```java
  void swapMinMaxBetter(int[] array) {
    int minlndex = getMinlndex(array);
    int maxlndex = getMaxlndex(array);
    swap(array, minlndex, maxlndex);
  }

  int getMinlndex(int[] array) { ... }
  int getMaxlndex(int[] array) { ... } 
  void swap(int[] array, int m, int n) { ... }
  ```
  - While the non-modular code isn't particularly awful, the nice thing about the modular code is that it's easily testable.
  - As code gets more complex, it becomes increasingly important to write it in a modular way.
***
- Flexible and Robust
  - Writing flexible, general-purpose code may also mean using variables instead of hard-coded values or using templates / generics to solve a problem.
  - If the solution is much more complex for the general case, and it seems unnecessary at this point in time. It may be better just to implement the simple, expected case.
- Error Checking
  - Careful coder validates that the input is what it should be, either through `ASSERT` statements or `if`-statements.
  - Writing these error checks can be tedious and can waste precious time in an interview. **The important thing is to point out that you would write the checks.**
  - If the error checks are much more than a quick `if`-statement, it may be best to leave some space where the error checks would go.