## Stack
- A stack uses LIFO (last-in first-out) ordering.
- In certain types of problems, it can be favorable to store data in a stack rather than in an array.
  1. Symmetry pair check.
  2. Certain recursive algorithms. Sometimes you need to push temporary data onto a stack as you recurse, but then remove them as you backtrack (for example, because the recursive check failed)
- Unlike an array, a stack does **not** offer constant-time access to the ith item.
- It does allow **constant time adds and removes**, as it doesn't require shifting elements around.
- A stack uses the following operations:
  - `pop()`: Remove the top item from the stack.
  - `push(item)`: Add an item to the top of the stack.
  - `peek()`: Return the top of the stack.
  - `isEmpty()`: Return true if and only if the stack is empty.
```java
public class MyStack<T> {
  private static class StackNode<T> {
    private T data;
    private StackNode<T> next;
    public StackNode(T data) { this.data = data; }
  }

  private StackNode<T> top;
  public T pop() {
    if (top == null)
      throw new EmptyStackException();
    T item = top.data;
    top = top.next;
    return item;
  }

  public void push(T item) {
    StackNode<T> t = new StackNode<T>(item);
    t.next = top
    top = t
  }
  
  public T peek() {
    if (top == nUll)
      throw new EmptyStackException();
    return top.data;
  }

  public boolean isEmpty() {
    return top == null;
  }
}
```

## Queue
- A queue implements **FIFO** (first-in first-out) ordering.
- One place where queues are often used is in **breadth-first search** or in **implementing a cache**
- A queue uses the following operations:
  - `add(item)` or `enqueue(item)`: Add an item to the end of the list.
  - `remove()` or `dequeue()`: Remove the first item in the list.
  - `peek()`: Return the top of the queue.
  - `isEmpty()`: Return true if and only if the queue is empty.
```java
public class MyQueue<T> {
  private static class QueueNode<T> {
    private T data;
    private QueueNode<T> next;
    public QueueNode(T data) {
      this.data = data;
    }
  }
  
  private QueueNode<T> first;
  private QueueNode<T> last;

  public void add(T item) {
    QueueNode<T> t = new QueueNode<T>(item);
    if (last != null) {
      last. next = t;
    }
    last = t;
    if (first == null) {
      first = last;
    }
  }

  public T remove() {
    if (first == null)
      throw new NoSuchElementException();
    
    T data = first.data;
    first = first.next;
    if (first == null) {
      last = null;
    }
    return data;
  }

  public T peek() {
    if (first == null) throw new NoSuchElementException();
    return first.data;
  }

  public boolean isEmpty() {
    return first == null;
  }
}
```
- It is especially easy to mess up the updating of the first and last nodes in a queue. Be sure to double check this.

## Questions
1. **Three in One:** Describe how you could use a single array to implement three stacks.
2. Stack Min: How would you design a stack which, in addition to push and pop, has a function min which returns the minimum element? Push, pop and min should all operate in O(1) time.
3. Stack of Plates: Imagine a (literal) stack of plates. If the stack gets too high, it might topple. Therefore, in real  life, we would likely start a new stack when the previous stack exceeds some threshold. Implement a data structure `SetOfStacks` that mimics this. `SetOfStacks` should be composed of several stacks and should create a new stack once the previous one exceeds capacity. `SetOfStacks.push()` and `SetOfStacks.pop()` should behave identically to a single stack (that is, `pop( )` should return the same values as it would if there were just a single stack).
   - **FOLLOW UP**: Implement a function `popAt(int index)` which performs a pop operation on a specific sub-stack.
4. Queue via Stacks: Implement a `MyQueue` class which implements a queue using two stacks.
5. Sort Stack: Write a program to sort a stack such that the smallest items are on the top. You can use an additional temporary stack, but you may not copy the elements into any other data structure (such as an array). The stack supports the following operations: `push`, `pop`, `peek`, and `isEmpty`.
6. Animal Shelter: An animal shelter, which holds only dogs and cats, operates on a strictly"first in, first out" basis. People must adopt either the "oldest" (based on arrival time) of all animals at the shelter, or they can select whether they would prefer a dog or a cat (and will receive the oldest animal of that type). They cannot select which specific animal they would like. Create the data structures to maintain this system and implement operations such as `enqueue`, `dequeueAny`, `dequeueDog`, and `dequeueCat`. You may use the built-in Linked List data structure.