
## Prime Numbers
- Every positive integer can be decomposed into a product of primes. $$
84 = 2^2 \times 3^1 \times 5^0 \times 7^1 \times 11^0 \times 13^0 $$
- **Divisibility**: in order for a number x to divide a number y (`x % y == 0`)
  - All primes in `x`'s prime factorization must be in `y`'s prime factorization
    - $x = 2^{j0} * 3^{j1} * 5^{j2} * 7^{j3} * 11^{j4} * ...$
    - $y = 2^{k0} * 3^{k1} * 5^{k2} * 7^{k3} * 11^{k4} * ...$
    - If `x/y`, then for all `i`, `ji <= ki`.
  - The greatest common divisor of `x` and `y` will be: $gcd(x, y) = 2^{min(j0, k0)} * 3^{min(j1, k1)} * 5^{min(j2, k2)} * ...$
  - The least common multiple of `x` and `y` will be: $gcd(x, y) = 2^{max(j0, k0)} * 3^{max(j1, k1)} * 5^{max(j2, k2)} * ...$
  - $$ \begin{aligned}
    gcd * lcm &= 2^{min(j0, k0)} * 2^{max(j0, k0)} * 3^{min(j1, k1)} * 3^{max(j1, k1)} * 5^{min(j2, k2) * 5^{max(j2, k2)}} * ... \\
    &= 2^{min(j0, k0) + max(j0, k0)} * 3^{min(j1, k1) + max(j1, k1)} * 5^{min(j2, k2) + max(j2, k2)} * ... \\
    &= 2^{j0+k0} * 3^{j1+k1} * 5^{j2+k2} * ... \\
    &= 2^{j0} * 2^{k0} * 3^{j1} * 3^{k1}  * ... \\
    &= xy
  \end{aligned}$$

- Checking for Primality
  ```java
  boolean primeSlightlyBetter(int n) {
    if (n < 2) {
      return false;
    }
    
    int sqrt = (int) Math.sqrt(n);
    for (int i = 2; i < sqrt; i++) {
      if (n % i == 0) return false;
    }
    return true;
  }
  ``` 
  - The $\sqrt{2}$ is sufficient because, for every number a which divides `n` evenly, there is a complement `b`, where `a b = n`.
  - In reality, all we really need to do is to check if `n` is divisible by a prime number.

- The Sieve of Eratosthenes
  - The Sieve of Eratosthenes is a highly efficient way to generate a list of primes.
  ```java
  boolean[] sieveOfEratosthenes(int max) {
    boolean[] flags = new boolean[max + 1];
    int count = 0;

    init(flags); // Set all flags to true other than 0 and 1 int prime = 2;

    while (prime <= Math.sqrt(max)) {
      /* Cross off remaining multiples of prime */
      crossOff(flags, prime);

      /* Find next value which is true */
      prime = getNextPrime(flags, prime);
    }

    return flags;
  }

  void crossOff(boolean[) flags, int prime) {
    /* Cross off remaining multiples of prime. We can start with (prime*prime), 
     * because if we have a k * prime, where k < prime, this value would have
     * already been crossed off in a prior iteration. */
    
    for (int i = prime * prime; i < flags. length; i += prime) {
      flags[i) = false;
    }
  }

  int getNextPrime(boolean[) flags, int prime) {
    int next = prime + 1;
    while (next < flags.length && !flags[next)) {
      next++;
    }
    return next;
  }
  ```
  1. We start with a list of all the numbers up through some value max
  2. we cross off all numbers divisible by 2.
  3. we look for the next prime and cross off all numbers divisible by it.
  4. By crossing off all numbers divisible by 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and so on, we wind up with a list of prime numbers from 2 through max.
  - There are a number of optimizations that can be made 
    - Only use odd numbers in the array, which would allow us to reduce our space usage by half.

## Probability
- Probability of A and B
  - $P(A \cap B) = P(B|A)P(A) = P(A|B)P(B)$
    - $P(A|B) = \frac{P(B|A)P(A)}{P(B)}$. The equation is called Bayes' Theorem.
  - For example, imagine we were picking a number between 1 and 10. What's the probability of *picking an even number* and a number *between 1 and 5*?
    - The odds of picking a number between 1 and 5 is 50%.
    - The odds of a number between 1 and 5 being even is 40%
    - P(x is even and x <= 5) = P(x is even given x <= 5) * P(x <= 5) = (2/5) * (1/2) = 1/5

- Probability of A or B
  - $P(A \cup B) = P(A) + P(B) - P(A \cap B) $
  - If we simply added their sizes, we would have double-counted their intersection. We need to subtract this out.
  - For example, imagine we were picking a number between 1 and 10. What's the probability of picking an even number or a number between 1 and 5?
    - We have a 50% probability of picking an even number and a 50% probability of picking a number between 1 and 5.
    - The odds of doing both are 20%.
    - P(x is even or x <= 5) = P(x is even) + P(x <= 5) - (x is even and x <= 5) = 1/2 + 1/2 - 1/5 = 4/5

- Independence
  - If A and B are independent, then $P(A \cap B) = P(A)P(B)$.
  - $P(B | A) = P(B)$ since A indicates nothing about B.
  - Independence says that one event happening means absolutely nothing about the other event

- Mutual Exclusivity
  - If A and B are mutually exclusive, then $P(A \cup B) = P(A) + P(B)$.
  - $P(A \cap B) = 0$
  - Mutual exclusivity means that if one happens then the other cannot.

- As long as two events have non-zero probabilities, they will **never be both** mutually exclusive and independent.
  - $P(A \cap B) = P(A)P(B) = 0$


## Puzzles
- If you are asked a puzzle or brainteaser, it's likely to be a reasonably fair one.
  - It probably won't rely on a trick of wording, and it can almost always be **logically deduced**.
- Don't panic when you get a brainteaser.
- **Start talking**, and show the interviewer how you approach a problem.
- In many cases, you will find it useful to **write down "rules" or patterns** that you discover while solving the problem.
  - You have two ropes, and each takes exactly one hour to burn. How would you use them to time exactly 15 minutes?
  - Note ropes are of uneven densities, so half the rope length-wise does not necessarily take half an hour to burn.
  - We immediately know that we can time one hour. We can also time two hours,
    - Rule 1: Given a rope that takes x minutes to burn and another that takes y minutes, we can time x+y minutes.
  - We can light a rope at both ends. The two flames would meet after 30 minutes.
    - Rule 2: Given a rope that takes x minutes to burn, we can time $\frac{x}{2}$ minutes.
    - Rule 3: If rope 1 takes x minutes to burn and rope 2 takes y minutes, we can turn rope 2 into a rope that takes (y-x) minutes or $(y-\frac{x}{2})$ minutes.
  - From start to end, our approach is as follows
    1. Light rope 1 at both ends and rope 2 at one end.
    2. When the two flames on Rope 1 meet. 30 minutes will have passed. Rope 2 has 30 minutes left of burntime.
    3. At that point, light Rope 2 at the other end.
    4. In exactly fifteen minutes, Rope 2 will be completely burnt.
- If you're stuck, consider applying one of the approaches for solving algorithm questions.
  - Base Case and Build and Do It Yourself (DIY) can be especially useful.
  - Brainteasers are often nothing more than **algorithm questions with the technical aspects removed.**

## Worst Case Shifting
- Many brainteasers are **worst-case minimization problems**, worded either
  - in terms of minimizing an action
  - in doing something at most a specific number of times
- A useful technique is to try to "balance" the worst case: if an early decision results in a skewing of the worst case, we can sometimes change the decision to **balance out the worst case.**

- The "nine balls" question
  - You have nine balls. Eight are of the same weight, and one is heavier.
  - You are given a balance which tells you only whether the left side or the right side is heavier.
  - Find the heavy ball in just **two uses of the scale.**
  1. Divide the balls in sets of four, with the ninth ball sitting off to the side
     - The heavy ball is in the heavier set.
     - If they are the same weight, then we know that the ninth ball is the heavy one.
     - This approach needs three weighings - one too many.
     - This is an imbalance in the worst case: the ninth ball takes just one weighing to discover if it's heavy, whereas others take three
  2. We divide the balls into sets of three items each: given N balls, where N is divisible by 3, one use of the scale will point us to a set of $\frac{N}{3}$ balls with the heavy ball.
  3. For the final set of three balls, we simply repeat this
     - put one ball off to the side and weigh two
     - Pick the heavier of the two.
     - If the balls are the same weight, pick the third one.

## Questions
1. The Heavy Pill: You have 20 bottles of pills. 19 bottles have 1.0 gram pills, but one has pills of weight 1.1 grams. Given a scale that provides an exact measurement, how would you find the heavy bottle? You can only use the scale once.
  - Hint:
    1. You can assume every bottle has unlimited pills.
    2. The scale provides **an exact measurement** rather than relative weights.

2. Basketball: You have a basketball hoop and someone says that you can play one of two games.
  - Game 1: You get one shot to make the hoop.
  - Game 2: You get three shots and you have to make two of three shots.
  - If p is the probability of making a shot, for which values of p should you pick one game or the other?

3. Dominos: There is an 8x8 chessboard in which two diagonally opposite corners have been cut off. You are given 31 dominos, and a single domino can cover exactly two squares. Can you use the 31 dominos to cover the entire board? Prove your answer (by providing an example or showing why it's impossible).

4. Ants on a Triangle: There are three ants on different vertices of a triangle. What is the probability of collision (between any two or all of them) if they start walking on the sides of the triangle? Assume that each ant randomly picks a direction, with either direction being equally likely to be chosen, and that they walk at the same speed. Similarly, find the probability of collision with n ants on an n-vertex polygon.

5. Jugs of Water: You have a five-quart jug, a three-quart jug, and an unlimited supply of water (but no measuring cups). How would you come up with exactly four quarts of water? Note that the jugs are oddly shaped, such that filling up exactly " half" of the jug would be impossible

6. **Blue-Eyed Island**: A bunch of people are living on an island, when a visitor comes with a strange order: all blue-eyed people must leave the island as soon as possible. There will be a flight out at 8:00 pm every evening. **Each person can see everyone else's eye color, but they do not know their own** (nor is anyone allowed to tell them). Additionally, they do not know how many people have blue eyes, although they **do know that at least one person does**. How many days will it take the blue-eyed people to leave?

7. The Apocalypse: In the new post-apocalyptic world, the world queen is desperately concerned about the birth rate. Therefore, she decrees that all families should ensure that they have one girl or else they face massive fines. If all families abide by this policy-that is, they have continue to have children until they have one girl, at which point they immediately stop-what will the gender ratio of the new generation be? (Assume that the odds of someone having a boy or a girl on any given pregnancy is equal.) Solve this out logically and then write a computer simulation of it.

8. **The Egg Drop Problem**: There is a building of 100 floors. If an egg drops from the Nth floor or above, it will break. If it's dropped from any floor below, it will not break. You're given two eggs. Find N, while minimizing the number of drops for the worst case.

0. 100 Lockers: There are 100 closed lockers in a hallway. A man begins by opening all 100 lockers. Next, he closes every second locker. Then, on his third pass, he toggles every third locker (closes it if it is open or opens it if it is closed). This process continues for 100 passes, such that on each pass i, the man toggles every ith locker. After his 100th pass in the hallway, in which he toggles only locker #100, how many lockers are open?

10. **Poison**: You have 1000 bottles of soda, and exactly one is poisoned. You have 10 test strips which can be used to detect poison. A single drop of poison will turn the test strip positive permanently. You can put any number of drops on a test strip at once and you can reuse a test strip as many times as you'd like (as long as the results are negative). However, you can only run tests once per day and it takes seven days to return a result. How would you figure out the poisoned bottle in as few days as possible? **FOLLOW UP**: Write code to simulate your approach.\
  - Hint:
    - Buckets are important.
    - 1000 bottles and 10 strips are the key.