## OOD
- *Object-oriented design* (OOD) questions require a candidate to sketch out the classes and methods to implement technical problems or real-life objects.
- These problems give interviewer insight into your coding style.
- Poor performance on this type of question may raise serious red flags.

## How to Approach
1. Handle Ambiguity
   - OOD questions are often **intentionally vague** in order to test whether you'll make assumptions or if you'll ask clarifying questions.
   - You should inquire at least
     - *Who* is going to use it
     - *How* they are going to use it.
   - Depending on the question, you may go through the "six Ws": who, what, where, when, how, why.
   - For example, suppose you were asked to design for a coffee maker.
     - Your coffee maker might be an industrial machine designed to be used in a massive restaurant
     - It might be a very simple machine, designed to be used by the elderly for just simple black coffee.
     - These use cases significantly impact design.

2. Define the Core Objects
   - For example, suppose we are asked to do the object-oriented design for a restaurant. Our core objects might be things like `Table`, `Guest`, `Party`, `Order`, `Meal`, `Employee`, `Server`, and `Host`.

3. Analyze Relationships
   - Which objects are members of which other objects?
   - Do any objects inherit from any others?
   - Are relationships many-to-many or one-to-many? 
   - For example, in the restaurant question
     - `Party` should have an array of `Guest`s.
     - `Server` and Host inherit from `Employee`.
     - Each `Table` has one `Party`, but each `Party` may have multiple `Table`s .
     - There is one `Host` for the `Restaurant`.
   - Be very careful - **you can often make incorrect assumptions**.
     - A single Table may have multiple Parties ("communal tables")
   - You should talk to your interviewer about **how general purpose your design should be**.

4. Investigate Actions
   - You may find that you have forgotten some objects, and you will need to update your design.
   - For example, a `Party` walks into the `Restaurant`, and a `Guest` requests a `Table` from the `Host`. The `Host` looks up the `Reservation` and, if it exists, assigns the `Party` to a `Table`. Otherwise, the `Party` is added to the end of the list. When a `Party` leaves, the `Table` is freed and assigned to a new `Party` in the list.

## Design Patterns
- Because interviewers are trying to test your capabilities and not your knowledge, design patterns are **mostly beyond the scope of an interview**.
- The *Singleton* and *Factory Method* design patterns are widely used in interviews
- Singleton
  - The Singleton pattern ensures that **a class has only one instance** and ensures access to the instance through the application.
  - It should be noted that many people dislike the Singleton design pattern
    - One reason for this is that **it can interfere with unit testing**.
  ```java
  public class Restaurant {
    private static Restaurant _instance = null;
    protected Restaurant ( ) { 
      // ...
    }
    public static Restaurant getInstance() {
      if (_instance == null) {
        instance = new Restaurant()
      }
      return _instance;
    }
  }
  ``` 
- Factory Method
  - The Factory Method offers **an interface for creating an instance of a class**, with its subclasses deciding which class to instantiate
  - Implement this with
    - creator class being abstract and not providing an implementation for the Factory method
    - Creator class be a concrete class that provides an implementation for the Factory method
  ```java
  public class CardGame {
    public static CardGame createCardGame(GameType type) {
      if (type == GameType.Poker) {
        return new PokerGame();
      } else if (type == GameType.BlackJack) {
        return new BlackJackGame();
      }
      return null;
    }
  }
  ```

## Questions
1. Deck of Cards: Design the data structures for a generic deck of cards. Explain how you would subclass the data structures to implement blackjack.

2. Call Center: Imagine you have a call center with three levels of employees: respondent, manager, and director. An incoming telephone call must be first allocated to a respondent who is free. If the respondent can't handle the call, he or she must escalate the call to a manager. If the manager is not free or not able to handle it, then the call should be escalated to a director. Design the classes and data structures for this problem. Implement a method `dispatchCall()` which assigns a call to the first available employee.

3. Jukebox: Design a musical jukebox using object-oriented principles.

4. Parking Lot: Design a parking lot using object-oriented principles.

5. Online Book Reader: Design the data structures for an online book reader system.

6. **Jigsaw**: Implement an NxN jigsaw puzzle. Design the data structures and explain an algorithm to solve the puzzle. You can assume that you have a fi tsWi th method which, when passed two puzzle edges, returns true if the two edges belong together.

7. Chat Server: Explain how you would design a chat server. In particular, provide details about the various backend components, classes, and methods. What would be the hardest problems to solve?

8. Othello: Othello is played as follows: Each Othello piece is white on one side and black on the other. When a piece is surrounded by its opponents on both the left and right sides, or both the top and bottom, it is said to be captured and its color is flipped. On your turn, you must capture at least one of your opponent's pieces. The game ends when either user has no more valid moves. The win is assigned to the person with the most pieces. Implement the object-oriented design for Othello.

9. **Circular Array**: Implement a Circular Array class that supports an array-like data structure which can be efficiently rotated. If possible, the class should use a generic type (also called a template), and should support iteration via the standard for `(Obj o : circularArray)` notation.